[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, and we've got
a great guest for you today.
George Haas is the Founder
and Premier Investigator
of the Mars research group known
as the Cydonia Institute that
was established back in 1991.
He is also a member of the
planetary SETI Institute,
and he is with us right
here on "Beyond Belief."
George, great to
have you with us.
>>GEORGE HAAS: Well, thanks
for having me on, George.
>>NOORY: Looking
forward to this.
You're a great guest on the
radio show "Coast to Coast."
And you're going
to be a marvelous
guest on "Beyond Belief."
I can feel it
because I know what
you're going to talk about.
How did you get involved
in Mars research?
>>HAAS: Well, my
interest in Mars
began back in 1976 with
the early Viking landings
of the twin Vikings and
the snapshots they took
of the famous face on Mars.
That is where my interest
in the Red Planet started.
>>NOORY: When you looked
at this picture of the face
on Mars, like so
many other people,
it truly does look like
a face, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, it has a
lot of facial aspects.
But one of the things that
NASA has done over the years
and very successful is convince
the public that the face is
a symmetrical human-like
face which it really isn't.
The face on Mars is a
two-faced bifurcated mask,
not like a symmetrical
human face.
>>NOORY: It looks somewhat
Egyptian, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Yes, the human side
does have like headdress
that would look very Egyptian.
But also, the Olmec.
The early Olmec also wore
very similar headdress
that you find with the--
>>NOORY: Also,
isn't it interesting
that Cairo, which is, of
course, the capital of Egypt,
means Mars in Arabic.
>>HAAS: Yes, there is a very
interesting correlation between
the two cultures with the
Mesoamerican especially--
Olmec and Egypt.
>>NOORY: As you began
to research this,
what were your first steps?
How did you get
involved in that?
>>HAAS: Well, like
I said early on,
my interest began with
the Viking Landers,
and that was the Bicentennial
year in the United States.
That's the year I graduated
high school, a good part
of the Bicentennial class.
And a lot of patriotism
and things like that.
And the landing of
the Mars probes on--
the Viking--
>>NOORY: It was
always so exciting.
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah, it
was very exciting.
But after NASA came out and
said that the face was just
a trick of light and
nothing to worry about
and they took more
pictures of it.
>>NOORY: It was a
mesa or something.
>>HAAS: Yeah, it
was just nothing.
So my interest kind of
waned until, I guess,
around 1992 when Mars Orbiter
was going to be sent up--
the one that disappeared just
before it reached the planet--
and that's when my
interest began again.
And we didn't get
any confirmation
for the face on Mars until
the Mars Global Surveyor
image in 1998 took
the better picture.
>>NOORY: The better
picture or the picture
that NASA used to try to
convince us it wasn't a face?
>>HAAS: Well, that's true.
>>NOORY: Because I
disappointed with that picture.
>>HAAS: Well, what NASA did
originally with the 1998 image,
Richard Hoagland was involved in
that, and he got a lot of blame
for what happened
with that image,
because he was
out saying that we
want NASA to release the
goods as soon as they
get the picture.
Don't be messing around with
any kind of enhancement.
They want to see
the original image.
So NASA took advantage of that,
and they took the raw data
and they released
it to the public.
And it was on in the newspapers.
It was a stretched out-- it
didn't even look like anything.
It was an awful picture.
And basically, the case
was closed to the public.
They thought that that
was what it looked like.
>>NOORY: That was it.
It was over.
>>HAAS: However, if
you, at the time,
in 1998, not many people
had access to computers.
If you were able to go
onto the NASA website.
They had it rectified
image of the face on Mars
which was in the
proper orientation.
>>NOORY: Which they
didn't show us.
>>HAAS: Now, the
interesting thing
was that the pictures
of the face on Mars,
normally, right
next to the face,
there's a circular crater which
is convenient for orientation
and to get perspective.
Now, all the images
of the 1998 image
that were released to
the press, especially
"New York Times," the
stretched out image, they
cropped off the crater.
Because if the crater
was in the picture,
you'd see that the
crater was not round,
it was all stretched
out, which would give you
a clue that something was
wrong with this picture.
Now, when they did
the rectification
and they straightened
the image out,
which was silently
released on their website,
it was a whole
different picture.
>>NOORY: When you look
at the picture of Mars,
what does it show you?
>>HAAS: It looks like a
dead planet at this point.
You know, there's just nothing
but this red dust everywhere
and weird structures and
formations all over the planet.
No signs of water that
we could see visually,
but NASA has taken
pictures showing
there is some water seepage
in some craters and things.
But it overall looks
like a dead planet.
>>NOORY: What do you think
happened to the planet?
>>HAAS: I'm not a geologist.
My background's art.
I see things--
>>NOORY: You see things
through the eyes of an artist.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>HAAS: --on the right
side of the brain
instead of the academic
looking at something.
But looking at the
planet, there's
a lot of interesting geological
features on the planet--
the face on Mars.
And then that whole
area of Cydonia,
there have been researchers that
claim that there's structures,
the five-sided D&M pyramid is
right next to the face on Mars.
So there's a lot
of evidence early
on showing that looks like
a lot of structure up there.
>>NOORY: John Brandenburg
is a great researcher,
and I had an opportunity
to interview him
on "Beyond Belief."
Seems to be remnants on Mars--
>>JOHN BRANDENBURG: Yes.
>>NOORY: --of
something past, right?
>>BRANDENBURG: Right.
There are two lines now of
intelligent activity on Mars.
One is what looks like
eroded archeology dating
from a earth-like
period on Mars.
We found remnants of this
at Cydonia Mensae, the face
and the pyramid--
the D&M pyramid.
Also at another place
called Galaxias Chaos,
which I, myself, discovered.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>BRANDENBURG: And
there apparently are two
faces there, one of which looks
just like the face at Cydonia.
It's just smaller.
>>NOORY: If this happened, John,
when do you think it occurred?
>>BRANDENBURG: It
looks like it dates
from the time when Mars had
an ocean and was earth-like.
>>NOORY: Billions of years ago?
>>BRANDENBURG: No,
probably about a quarter
billion years ago.
>>NOORY: Which is nothing
in the scheme of time.
>>BRANDENBURG: Geologic
time, quite recently.
As I mentioned,
there are two lines
of evidence for
intelligent activity.
One is the
archaeological remnants.
What appear to be
The other one is the evidence
for massive nuclear explosions
on Mars.
>>NOORY: What do you
think of his work, George?
>>HAAS: I'm friends
with Dr. Brandenburg.
I think he's made some
very important discoveries.
He's had, I think, two science
papers about this discovery,
about this nuclear
explosion-- one over Cydonia
and the other one on the other
side of the planet over Utopia.
And using NASA's
own data, early on,
from what Dr.
Brandenburg states,
that NASA was aware of
this all back to the Viking
because the orbiters
had sensors onboard,
and they were able to pick up
a lot of this these isotopes
that he's talking about.
And these isotope signatures
are not natural radiation,
it's a artificial
type of radiation
that was created which
these signatures show.
It shows that these
were weaponized.
>>NOORY: It's mind boggling to
try to ascertain what happened
to Mars many, many years ago.
It must have been a horrible,
frightening experience
if there was anybody
living on that planet.
>>HAAS: Yeah, from what we're
seeing it appears that NASA--
through their data, with their
images-- what we're seeing
is that, like Dr. Brandenburg
says, Mars, at one time,
was probably a very green
planet-- had water, had life.
>>NOORY: So we know it
had water, a lot of water.
>>HAAS: Right.
And either through
some indigenous battle
or where these nuclear
battles went on,
they destroyed the culture.
Possibly, leaving Mars
and coming to earth.
>>NOORY: A lot of
people believe that,
that we may be the Martians.
>>HAAS: Well, the structures
that we're finding on Mars--
and most particularly this
three-sided pyramid that we
found--
shows a lot of connections
to terrestrial cultures.
>>NOORY: Well, let's take a look
at that three-sided pyramid,
George, and you can just tell
us what we're looking at here.
>>HAAS: Now, this is
a three-sided pyramid
that is located in the Candor
Chasm area of Mars which
is in the Western hemisphere.
And as you can see,
this is a very exquisite
three-dimensional structure.
>>NOORY: It's a great picture.
>>HAAS: Yes, this is early
Mars Global Surveyor images.
And you can see the three faces.
They're perfectly
divided into three faces
which are 120 degrees each,
which adds up the 360 degrees.
The exquisite geometry-- and
this is just mind-blowing--
and this is on the
surface of Mars.
And NASA's taken numerous
pictures of this.
>>NOORY: Can that
happen naturally?
That shape?
>>HAAS: We had a science paper
published that we were working
with this, and we
had two geologists--
a close friend of mine, William
Saunders and Michael Dale,
a geologist-- and they're
saying that there's
no way something like this
could be produced naturally.
Even if you look at the sand
dunes and the wind directions
and things, they
just don't add up.
>>NOORY: Well, I was
going to ask you,
what is that
irrigation-looking mark
leading up to the pyramids?
>>HAAS: Those are sand dunes.
And as you can see, if you're
looking at wind directions,
if the sand dunes were
created in the lower
portion, those straight
striations going down,
that would eliminate the
ones on the upper left
because they're all going
in a different direction.
Something even as
simple as looking
at the sand dunes
in this area don't
make any sense geologically.
>>NOORY: Which is
interesting because if you
look at the Great Pyramids
of Giza from above,
they look just like that.
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah, except
they'd be four-sided.
Three-sided pyramids
are very rare on Earth.
Besides this one,
there's numerous examples
of three-sided pyramids
that we're finding.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look
the next picture which
is a different angle of this.
>>HAAS: This is the
most recent picture
of this three-sided pyramid.
This was taken by the Mars
Reconnaissance Orbiter--
very high resolution--
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: --which
shows a lot of detail
on the left side,
that shiny face.
You can actually see what
appears to be a construction.
>>NOORY: If this was man-made
or made by something,
somebody, how would
they have made that?
And how big is that?
>>HAAS: Well, like
the American Indians,
we have earthen mounds.
Now, we don't know if this
is an earthen mound that
was covered with masonry.
But from looking at these
high-resolution pictures,
there appears to be some
masonry on that left side.
And one way to really
get to the crux of this
is to show this evidence
and get NASA to get
some boots on the ground.
Take a look at this thing.
>>NOORY: What's the
size of that object?
>>HAAS: This is about 1,000 feet
across and about 450 feet high.
>>NOORY: How would that
echo the pyramids of Giza?
>>HAAS: It's a lot bigger.
>>NOORY: Is it?
Let's look at the next one.
>>HAAS: Now, this image here
is showing the recent picture
of the Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter on the left--
a crop of that.
And it's showing the
exquisite geometry
that the geologist saw on this.
Now, this pyramid doesn't
have straight sides
like we would see at the
Giza Pyramids in Egypt.
These have a circular
structure to it.
And if you do this very
intricate rolo geometry
with the three circles
intersecting, I mean,
this is high art.
This is, you know, master
building that we're looking at.
>>NOORY: This looks more like
a structure that was physically
there, that they played with.
Doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Possibly.
But there are other structures
in this area that we won't
have time to talk about
today, but this is not
an isolated event.
There's other
structures in this--
>>NOORY: Similar to this?
>>HAAS: More pictographic.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HAAS: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK, and let's look at
our last picture here, George.
>>HAAS: Now, this is
an image showing--
>>NOORY: It's a
comparison, right?
>>HAAS: Yep, right.
The object on the right is
the only three-sided pyramid
on Earth that we could find.
And this is a man-made
structure that is--
I'm sure the audience
will enjoy this--
this is found in Area 51.
>>NOORY: Made-made?
>>HAAS: This is man-made.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
We don't know what the
structure's used for.
It's there.
You can see it on the internet.
That's where we found the image.
And this is located at Area 51.
It's a three-sided
pyramidal structure.
>>NOORY: What looks like
chipped out of there at the top?
>>HAAS: The top-- it's
a flat base at the top.
There seems to be an
access cap on the top,
and there's two little ports on
the left and the right there.
And then off the top,
that band going across,
that's a road, so you can
get a good idea of the size.
But we just put
this side by side
to show you the exquisite
geometry that we're
seeing in the image on Mars is
even more startling than what
we're seeing--
>>NOORY: What's so amazing about
this is that the anomalies are
everywhere on this
planet, not just situated
at Cydonia in areas like this.
It's everywhere.
>>HAAS: Yes, we're finding
these structures are
planet-wide on Mars.
Everyone's early
interest in Mars
was with Cydonia
because of the face
on Mars, the D&M pyramid of
the so-called "city area."
And once NASA started
taking all these pictures--
and there's a tremendous
archive to look through,
and it's very time consuming.
I mean, the average
citizen would
take weeks and weeks for
them to even figure out
how to access these images.
But once you do, you have
access to all of this--
the catalog that they have--
from the Viking, the Mars
Global Surveyor,
the THEMIS images.
And you can do comparisons to
show, like, the pyramid here,
the three-sided pyramid.
There's five or six
images of this formation
that are taken at different
sunlight, different times
of the year.
So it shows that the
formation is consistent.
>>NOORY: What would the
purpose be of that pyramid,
for example?
>>HAAS: The culture that
built it, it's probably
some type of huge complex.
There's probably all
kinds of archives inside.
And like I said
earlier, there's also
other structures around that
that point to artificiality.
So these are probably
just small little cities.
>>NOORY: When we send astronauts
to Mars, whenever this occurs,
where should we go
first in your opinion?
>>HAAS: Well, a
lot of people want
them to go to Cydonia because
we're all familiar with that,
but there's so many other
places on the planet to go to.
That would be a hard choice.
But if you pressed me for
an answer, I'd probably say,
go to the face on
Mars because I think
once the public's convinced
that that's a structure,
then the whole ball game is--
>>NOORY: And why does NASA,
George, seem to hold back?
I mean, don't you think
this would be an amazing
announcement if NASA said,
we believe this structure--
this face on Mars--
was built by a civilization
on that planet.
We don't know what
happened to them.
We don't know if they
came here, but we
do believe that this was
created by intelligent beings.
Why not just say that?
>>HAAS: Well, I think they
have a lot of reasons not
to do that.
One is control.
They don't want to intimidate
other cultures that
have drastically different
beliefs about things.
And they have to deal with
the whole planet, I think.
And it is a odd question
of why they don't even
consider acknowledging
that this is a structure.
>>NOORY: It's not
even black and white.
It's just no, no, no.
>>HAAS: Well, they said no,
no about water until recently.
Now they're saying they
found a lake on Mars.
>>NOORY: Well, that's true.
>>HAAS: It takes time.
>>NOORY: That's true.
What do you think
the significance
of these structures might be--
the pyramids, the face, things
like that?
Is that for others looking
down, or is it just for them?
>>HAAS: Well, just like we
find on Earth with pictographic
structures--
specifically in
Peru-- what we find
of a lot of these
ancient cultures,
they'll build these
huge geoglyphs
which is a pictographic
graphic image of something.
So if you're flying over,
like the Nazca Lines,
it's like, oh, looky here.
What is here?
And if you come and
investigate that area,
you'll find out
in that vicinity,
there's a whole culture.
And we think that what
we're finding on Mars
is seeing something
like the face on Mars,
something we can recognize.
And when you go
there, you're going
to find there's the D&M pyramid.
There's a city complex.
There's this whole
cities in this area.
The same thing with
what we're going
to be talking about later--
the parrot geoglyph-- is
right next to a whole city.
So I think this idea
of using geoglyphs
draws the eye in,
culture center, you know,
flying over the
planet, looking down
because all of
these structures are
built for flying over the
terrain to see these things.
>>NOORY: It truly is
remarkable, isn't it?
>>HAAS: Now, a lot
of scientists contend
that that was just
the ancient cultures
trying to communicate
with the gods.
>>NOORY: Well,
which is possible.
>>HAAS: Which is possible.
But it's also plausible
that they were
trying to communicate with--
as the ancient
aliens likes to say--
extraterrestrials.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
some more structures.
What are we looking at here?
>>HAAS: Now, this is
the keyhole structure.
We had a science paper
published for this also.
>>NOORY: And what do you
mean the keyhole structure?
>>HAAS: It's shaped
like a keyhole.
It has the circle on the bottom.
It's kind of like
an exclamation mark.
Now, when this was taken, this
is a high-resolution image
taken by the Mars
Reconnaissance Orbiter,
and NASA releases images
constantly, every month.
And normally, when
they put up an image,
they don't have any caption.
It's just the data
and the images there.
When they put this
image up, they actually
said it looked like
an exclamation mark.
And then they had
three paragraphs
from one of the NASA scientists
saying why this was natural.
>>NOORY: It looks natural to me.
What about you?
>>HAAS: Well, from
my perspective,
it is one of the strongest
pieces of evidence we have.
The symmetry in
this is remarkable--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HAAS: --the geometry.
>>NOORY: Point that out to me.
>>HAAS: The symmetry
and the geometry
that we're seeing in
this keyhole formation.
As you can see, everything
is equal on each side.
This symmetry's remarkable.
The mathematical
alignment of this
is beyond anything that
you could find naturally.
>>NOORY: Which drawing is the
structure and what is the--
>>HAAS: The one on the left
is actually just an outline
of the structure.
The dome, the
circular part is not
connected to the bar at the top.
What we're doing
here, we're just
showing the triangular
symmetry, that everything just
connects to the center.
And this was all looked
at by the two geologists
that co-wrote the paper.
And we think this is
just beyond belief.
>>NOORY: Now, if you were
to mathematically project
the odds of this
happening naturally,
what would those odds be?
>>HAAS: Well, we haven't had
that calculation prepared,
but it would be astronomical.
The geologist that
looked at this, there's
no way that something like this
could be produced naturally.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>HAAS: And this is out
in the middle of nowhere.
This is isolated all by itself.
There's nothing around this.
>>NOORY: Nothing around it.
What could have been
around it, water?
>>HAAS: It seems to be in
the middle of a big plain.
There's nothing there--
>>NOORY: Nothing there.
OK, let's look at
our last picture.
>>HAAS: --except
this unique piece.
Now, this is giving the
audience a perspective
of showing a terrestrial
example of a keyhole tomb
with the keyhole on Mars.
Now, the image on the left is of
the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter
image showing the
arrow view, obviously,
of the keyhole formation.
Now, on the right side, that
is a Kofun tomb in Japan
which is over 2000 years old.
And as you can see, the
comparison of the formations
are remarkable.
>>NOORY: It is very similar.
So if you're seeing
similar objects on Earth,
and you see them on Mars, what
do you conclude about that?
>>HAAS: We're
concluding that whoever
built these structures on Mars
have a direct relationship
with terrestrial cultures.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HAAS: And the interesting
thing about this keyhole shape.
This is a universal form.
This isn't only in Japan.
We find this in
American Indians.
They produce mounds that
are shaped like this.
Archaeologists
call them war clubs
instead of keyhole formations.
They're found in Saudi Arabia.
If you go on the
internet, there's
aerial views of these
tombs all over the place.
These tombs here, the one we're
showing on the comparison,
that's in Japan.
These are all over
in Japan and one
of the areas of the country.
And pictographically,
you find it
with hieroglyphics in
the Mesoamerican culture.
They used a keyhole shape.
Even the Egyptians.
So this goes all the way
back to the Knights Templar.
In England, one of the oldest
churches that the Knights
Templar built, the only
thing left of the church
is the foundation, and
it's shaped like a keyhole.
>>NOORY: What is
the significance
of a keyhole shape?
>>HAAS: Well, it has to
do a lot with geometry.
It's the two opposing
of the circle,
and then you have the
triangle intersecting.
>>NOORY: What is the
significance of the keyhole
in terms of the imagery?
>>HAAS: Well, the keyhole,
a lot of people think of it
because it's where you
put the key to the door--
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HAAS: The keyhole.
But it's actually a
very ancient shape.
I think even the St.
Patrick's Cathedral
has some reference to that.
There is a lot of spiritual
connection to these two
objects.
The sphere and the
triangle going together
may have something to
do with reproduction.
So there's a lot of esoteric--
>>NOORY: So there is
a lot of symbolism.
>>HAAS: A lot of symbolism.
>>NOORY: It's truly remarkable.
And you find these
all over the planet?
>>HAAS: Yes, that's
the remarkable thing.
When we first got introduced to
this whole idea of structures
on Mars, everyone thought
it was just in Cydonia
and that the rest of the planet
was just a bunch of rocks.
And as people started examining
different areas of the planet,
we found, hey, look at
there's stuff everywhere.
>>NOORY: In your opinion--
we touched on it briefly--
do you think Mars was disrupted
by some kind of nuclear war,
maybe from extraterrestrials
from outside of Mars?
Or that there was some
calamity that occurred,
that it got hit by an asteroid.
But the planet doesn't
look like it was bombarded
by something that destroyed it.
I don't see that, do you?
>>HAAS: Well, there's
a few scenarios.
My personal belief is that
Mars evolved as a green planet
and had oceans and water--
>>NOORY: Atmosphere--
>>HAAS: --atmosphere.
>>NOORY: --everything.
>>HAAS: And there was
some natural catastrophe
that happened that
destroyed the planet.
And I think the objects
that we're finding--
this architecture,
these buildings,
and these pictographs
and images--
those were built by a different
culture that came and occupied
the dead planet.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HAAS: I believe
these things were all
built on the planet,
constructed on Mars when dead.
And that culture was
destroyed by either
a conflicting culture, an
extraterrestrial culture,
or infighting.
>>NOORY: Why would they want
to occupy a dead planet?
>>HAAS: Well, it's
easy to move around.
Everything on Mars is large,
and some of these things
are over a mile and a--
the keyhole formation is
a mile and a half long.
And with the low gravity, and
there's just a lot of room
to build stuff.
And it's easy to
do off planet, you
know, your ships
coming back and forth.
Same thing with the moon--
less gravity, better place
to build a space base
where you could get
off the planet easier.
And that's the problem
we have on Earth is
getting on and off the planet.
>>NOORY: What makes you
think these structures came
after the fact?
>>HAAS: Because of
their condition.
A lot of these are in
really pristine shape
that we're finding,
at least some
of these pictographic images.
>>NOORY: They
should've been more--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>HAAS: They would
have been destroyed.
And I think the reason
that they're preserved
is because there's less
weathering on Mars.
The wind on Mars gets
around 15 miles an hour.
I know the public sees a lot
of these movies about Mars
with these huge--
>>NOORY: Dust storms.
>>HAAS: --storms coming
and pulling people apart.
The wind gets no faster
than 15 miles an hour--
these little dust storms.
>>NOORY: Are you
convinced that there
was an advanced
civilization on Mars?
>>HAAS: I believe an advanced
civilization occupied Mars.
I don't know if they
were indigenous,
but I know there was
some advance-- that had
a direct correlation with us.
And there is a lot
of evidence that when
Earth had humans living on it,
the opposing group was living
on Mars a millennial ago.
>>NOORY: By the looks of things,
how long were they there?
>>HAAS: Well, according to
my co-author William Saunders
and Michael Dale,
the other geologist,
we're thinking that some
of the structures on Mars--
and going along with the
history that's connecting this
to Mesoamerica--
that it's anywhere between--
this is going to be
interesting-- between 25,000
and 250,000 years.
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>HAAS: That recent.
>>NOORY: That's recent,
but not for a long time.
They didn't stay
for a long time.
>>HAAS: We don't know where they
went or if they're still here.
That may be the
culture that people
are saying about UFOs
and aliens and the Greys.
They may be connected to
whoever that was then.
But for some reason,
they've decided
to take a standoffish
point as opposed
to being more interactive that
they were in the earlier times,
for some reason.
>>NOORY: What about the theory
that we're the Martians?
>>HAAS: Well, we
may be genetically
connected to them, whoever
made us, probably from Mars.
And if you follow Zacharias
Sitchin with the Anunnaki,
the Anunnaki are also
connected to Mesoamerica
with the Olmec, the same idea.
So there's a lot of
connections with all this
once you get involved into it.
>>NOORY: What if the Anunnaki
was responsible for seeding
the entire solar system?
>>HAAS: That's correct.
Our solar system may not be
the only place they visited.
They could be doing
this all over the place.
>>NOORY: That's something else.
>>HAAS: Yes.
>>NOORY: So you've got
the keyhole, the face.
Do they tie in together at all?
>>HAAS: Well, just
that their structures
on Mars probably dating
to the same period.
One of the most
fascinating pieces we have
is the parrot formation.
>>NOORY: Now, tell me
about the parrot formation
before we look at
some of the pictures.
>>HAAS: Well, the
parrot formation
was found by a early member
of the Cydonia Institute, Will
Faust, and it is over a
mile long or nearly a mile.
>>NOORY: It's huge.
>>HAAS: It's a profiled
image of a parrot.
And it has the head, the body.
It's got a leg with
some feet, the toes.
It's got tail feathers.
It's got a raised
up wing, and you
can see the wing frets in
the feathering in the wing.
The details so precise
that you can actually
see the tongue inside the beak.
>>NOORY: What would
the significance
be of building a
parrot structure?
>>HAAS: Well, the interesting
thing about a parrot with all
of this Mesoamerican imagery
that we're finding on Mars--
going right back to
the face on Mars,
had a lot of Mesoamerican
iconography in there--
the parrot was the principal
bird deity of the Maya.
>>NOORY: Oh, really?
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: Which was a macaw.
And the principal bird deity,
according to the Popol Vuh,
he was one of the bird gods
of the early Maya culture.
And similar to the
American Indian story
where the crow steals the
sun, puts it in a box.
Well, the principal
bird deity, the macaw--
Seven Macaw, he's
actually called--
he had stolen the sun.
And the Hero Twins had to kill
the parrot to get the sun back.
And there's a lot of
Mesoamerica pots and stelae
and things talking about the
Hero Twins, the famous Hero
Twins from the Maya creation
story that they shot a dart,
and they hit the
beak of the parrot,
and he fell out
of the world tree,
and that's how they
retrieved the sun back.
>>NOORY: Well, let's look
at this picture, then.
This is amazing.
>>HAAS: Now, here's two images
of the parrot formation.
The same image, just
the one on the bottom
it's colorized just to
give the audience a time
to adjust their eye to see
what they're looking at here.
Now, this is the profiled
image of this parrot.
It's about almost
a mile in length.
You can see it has a
circular mound that's
the main part of the body.
There's the head.
There's the tufting around
the feathering of the neck.
You can see the eye, the beak.
There's a tongue feature.
The lower leg is there with
the elbow and the toes.
You can see some tail
feathers coming off.
This was one of the early
Mars Global Surveyor images.
It didn't capture
the entire tail,
but we did get two
other images later
on that confirmed all that.
And you can see the wing
frets coming up over the back.
And way above this, which
is not in this image,
you can see there's the
wing goes all the way up.
And the odd thing
about this, once you're
looking at it, if you look
at the colorized image,
you can see there's a dart
sticking out of his beak.
Now that goes right back
to the principal bird deity
story of Mesoamerica
where the Hero Twins,
to retrieve the sun,
they shot the macaw
with a dart that hit him in
the beak, and he fell down.
Now, this parrot on Mars looks
like he's down on the ground.
It's a dead parrot.
>>NOORY: He looks dead.
>>HAAS: Yes.
And even he has his eyes
like a little slit there.
And his wing is up like
a he's an injured bird.
>>NOORY: What are the
little feathered things
at the top of the picture?
>>HAAS: The little
squiggly lines?
>>NOORY: The squiggly lines.
>>HAAS: Those are
sand dunes that are
in that part of the picture.
Those are just little dunes.
As you can see,
underneath the parrot,
that nice brown area there with
that little streak running.
That's all sand.
And the foot at the
bottom is partially
covered by some of that sand.
Now, this is located in the
Argyre basin area of Mars which
is directly below Cydonia.
>>NOORY: How big are
those sand dunes, though?
If you were standing up between
them, how tall would they be?
>>HAAS: Oh, those are huge.
I wouldn't know because
that's a small detail.
When you consider that from
the beak to the end of the tail
is almost a mile, so
those are pretty--
>>NOORY: So they
could be hundreds
of feet tall, of sand dunes.
>>HAAS: That's true.
And the interesting
thing, George,
is that over the years, all
of the different images,
the sand dunes are
the same shape.
They don't move, or they
don't change shape with wind,
so it's very peculiar.
>>NOORY: Are they petrified?
>>HAAS: We don't know.
It'd be great to go there
and take a look at them.
But as you know, sand moves.
You know, wind moves
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>NOORY: Yeah, yeah.
>>HAAS: But the interesting
thing even with the--
as we showed the first image
with the three-sided pyramid,
those weird looking sand
dunes that come off each side,
they are consistent over--
>>NOORY: They don't change.
>>HAAS: --years.
In different seasons,
they do not change.
And you would think
sand dunes would change.
>>NOORY: It's almost
like they're solidified.
>>HAAS: Yeah, it's like
they're frozen in time.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at our next picture.
There's the parrot
again on the bottom.
This looks more like a
parrot than the close-up.
>>HAAS: Yes, this gives
you a whole perspective.
Now, you have a
parrot at the bottom,
and then you see
the wing going up.
Now, all of this grid-like
structure above the parrot,
this is what we were talking
about earlier about a lot
of these South American
cultures putting a pictograph
of an animal next--
which is usually
shaped in the ground
next to their city to show
people flying over that hey,
look here, there
might be a city.
This whole wing section
above the parrot
has all kinds of
structures in it
which we won't have time to
talk about today but maybe
in a future program.
It's just amazing the structures
that are up in that wing.
>>NOORY: There looks like a
hodgepodge of things up there.
>>HAAS: If you follow the image
straight up to the center top,
there's that odd
grape structure.
Do you see that?
Was called "the scarab"
early on in our research.
And just looking at
the infrastructure
next to that with
that grid going up,
this is all you know
ruined structures.
>>NOORY: That looks like a
huge city complex, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: Exactly.
So you asked
earlier, which place
would I'd rather go to on Mars.
This is probably the top
three that I'd want to go--
>>NOORY: And do you
think the parrot was
a natural impression, and
then they modified it?
There was already a--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>HAAS: The sphinx, supposedly,
was a natural formation
that they modified.
This could have been.
But the amount of detail that
was put into this modification.
This parrot was examined
by two geologists and three
veterinarians.
One veterinarian,
a Avian specialist.
>>NOORY: What does she say?
>>HAAS: She says that
this parrot formation--
along with the other
two veterinarians--
is exquisite in its design
and has over 17 points
of anatomical correctness.
Now, that's talking about the
beak, the tongue, the eye,
the neck, the body,
the legs, the wings.
>>NOORY: The headdress?
>>HAAS: Yes, there's 17 points
of anatomical correctness.
Now, when you're looking
at something that's
supposed to be
natural, and you're
trying to have an argument
that it's artificial,
after you get past five points
of anatomical correctness,
it's starting to
look artificial.
This formation has 17.
>>NOORY: I'm impressed with
the feathered bottom look
of the parrot.
>>HAAS: Oh, yes.
And later images actually
show more of the tail.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
one more image here.
>>HAAS: What we're looking at
now is a terrestrial image--
an aerial view of the earliest
Maya city that was found.
This is in Guatemala.
This is called Utatln.
Earlier, named from
the K'iche' Maya
was the "place of reeds" which
is mentioned in the Maya Popol
Vuh.
This is one of
the oldest cities.
This city was excavated in
1970 by archaeologist William
Wallace.
And on the right, you'll
see his sight map.
And it was found to have the
shape of a parrot with its wing
up.
So you can see the parrots head.
There's the wing up, and
there's the tail feathers.
So the whole shape of one of the
earliest K'iche' Maya cities is
in the shape of a parrot just
like we're finding on Mars.
And the parrot is
the Seven Macaw
which was the principal bird
deity in the Maya culture.
And it's pretty
extraordinary that we're
finding the same shape on Mars.
And not only is this whole
parrot shape part of a city--
the city is in that shape--
we're finding
evidence of a city up
in the wing of the
parrot on Mars.
>>NOORY: When people look at
the structure of the parrot,
do they all come up with
the same conclusion?
Different people?
>>HAAS: You're talking
about the one on Earth here?
>>NOORY: The one on Mars.
>>HAAS: Everyone we've
shown, they see the parrot.
>>NOORY: Instantly.
>>HAAS: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: What are the
odds of that happening?
>>HAAS: Now, when Will Faust
found this, he first noticed--
days before he realized he
was looking at a parrot--
he was interested in
the wing formation--
all that structure up there.
Because Will was a--
his background
was in archeology.
He lived in Pennsylvania.
He's no longer with us.
He passed away while we
were writing this paper.
Will Faust found
the parrot on Mars.
He also found the three-sided
pyramid in Candor chasm.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
our last picture here.
So what are we looking at here?
>>HAAS: This is a close-up
of the wing section.
Now, in the upper and right,
that grape-shaped formation
that we call the scarab
up on the right side, just
look at the
infrastructure there.
I mean, this is amazing.
There's structures
everywhere here.
>>NOORY: I'm still fascinated
by these sand dunes.
>>HAAS: Yeah, and there you
can see the sand dunes coming
down there on the left side.
And like I had said
earlier, they all
seem to be consistent when we
take newer images of these.
The sand dunes are still
there, the same shape.
It's kind of bizarre.
>>NOORY: Truly, it looks like
a city with roads, doesn't it?
>>HAAS: It does.
And we have higher resolution
pictures of this available--
not this slide-- and
some of the details
are just also, pretty amazing.
And if this was found
on Earth, there'd
be no question that this
was a lost civilization.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Oh, yeah, there's no
question about it.
>>HAAS: This is
the parrot aside.
I mean, this is right
next to the parrot.
>>NOORY: What are
these lines that I
think look like roads to you?
>>HAAS: It does look like
a gridwork of a major city
with the central hubs.
It looks like an ancient city
with roadways and connective
tunneling and all
kinds of bridges--
collapsed bridges up on
the top, open foundations.
You know, something
dramatic happened here
to cause these ruins.
>>NOORY: What are
these real dark spots?
They look like they could have
been lake basins or something.
>>HAAS: The dark spots
are basically just shadows
showing the height.
If you look at the
scarab form, which
looks kind of like a
grape, to the left of that
is a major bridge that goes up.
So that shadowing is probably
showing how high up that is.
And if you look to the
left, you can actually
see all the infrastructure
of buildings shooting up
on the side there.
A lot of supportive beams
and things throughout this.
It just reeks of artificiality.
>>NOORY: Our Mars rovers have
taken some incredible pictures.
Look at this.
>>NARRATOR: Mars and Earth have
approximately the same landmass
even though Mars has only
15% of the Earth's volume
and just over 10%
of the Earth's mass.
Around 2/3 of the Earth's
surface is covered in water.
Martian surface gravity's
only 37% of ours,
meaning you could leap nearly
three times higher on Mars.
Mars is home to the tallest
mountain in the solar system--
Olympus Mons-- a shield volcano
that's 21 kilometers high
and 600 kilometers in diameter.
Despite having formed
over billions of years,
evidence from volcanic
lava is so recent
that many scientists believe
it could still be alive.
Recent photos captured
by the Mars Spirit Rover
shows what appears to
be bird-like object
in the sky of Mars.
Skeptics said that
perhaps it's something
on the lens of the camera.
However, some believe
it could show an animal.
The mysterious bird-like
creature flying past the sky
could be a number
of things, and it's
difficult to tell how far away
from the Rover the object is.
The object in
question does appear
to be bird- or insect-like,
and the object is symmetrical,
which some say does
away with the theory
that it might have
been a rock or debris.
Some who view the image are
certain that it proves things
are living on Mars.
There is a long history of
seeing animal shapes on Mars.
This may be due to the fact that
Mars is so tightly associated
with the search for
life and because we just
have so many pictures of
the surface to dig through.
>>NOORY: What do you
think that was, George?
>>HAAS: I have seen
that on the internet.
I'm not sure.
I don't think there's a
atmosphere on Mars that
would sustain a
flying bird, but it
does look like there's
some odd object up there.
>>NOORY: There's
something there.
Could it be an
anomaly on the lens?
>>HAAS: It could be an
anomaly on the lens.
It does change shape
which is kind of odd.
>>NOORY: Right.
And you would think that
anomaly, if it was on the lens,
would be there in every picture.
>>HAAS: Correct.
>>NOORY: And it's not.
>>HAAS: And it doesn't seem to
be a mechanical thing that's
flying over like a drone because
that would be the same shape.
This seems to be
something moving.
>>NOORY: Wonder it's
a craft of some kind.
>>HAAS: A live craft
would be interesting.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HAAS: And that doesn't go
beyond the realm of sci-fi.
>>NOORY: No, there's lots of
strange things happening out
there.
>>HAAS: And sometimes science
fiction becomes reality,
and that's what we're
finding on Mars.
>>NOORY: What does Mars
mean to you as a researcher?
>>HAAS: My interest
in Mars goes, like I
said, way back to Viking.
I have a very strong
attachment to Mars.
I'm fascinated by it.
And the more I learn, the more
areas that I want to explore.
And it's very time consuming.
Like, just putting
this few slides here
that we're looking at
today, the amount of time
you have to wait for NASA
to get collaborating images.
Sometimes, like the
Viking was in 1976,
we didn't have the second
image until 21 years later.
>>NOORY: Why does
it take so long?
>>HAAS: And some of
these images that we're
looking at now, five,
six years between images.
It's a long wait.
>>NOORY: Do you think there's
some pictures that NASA has not
released that might
be astounding?
>>HAAS: Yes.
I think what we're
seeing is stuff
that gets released to
the public after it goes.
'Cause NASA is also under the
Department of Defense which
a lot of the public
doesn't realize.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HAAS: So they just
can't release anything.
But they have released
enormous amount of evidence
in what we've been looking
through showing artificiality
on the planet.
So I imagine the
high-resolution images
they're getting from the
Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter,
we just have a handful of
images just from Cydonia,
and they've been doing this
for since the early 2000s.
And you would think that with
that type of powerful camera,
we only have one picture
from the Mars Reconnaissance
Orbiter of the face.
>>NOORY: That's it.
>>HAAS: Just one.
>>NOORY: And it's
not a good one.
>>HAAS: And it's
not a very good one.
And the other thing
is NASA has always
contended that they have no
interest in the face on Mars.
It has no geological
significance for them to study.
However, if you go
through their archives,
there's probably about 40
pictures of the face on Mars.
>>NOORY: But we're
not interested.
>>HAAS: No interest in, no.
>>NOORY: Tell me
more about geoglyphs.
What are they, exactly?
>>HAAS: Geoglyphs, we
find these on Earth.
The Nazca Lines--
the American Indians
made mounds and
geoglyphic formations.
They're large structures.
They're either geometric,
or they're pictographic.
And they're basically
designed to be either seen
by the gods or some
vehicle flying overhead
to look down and see these
and notice that these are
different areas of interest.
>>NOORY: Let's look at
some geoglyphs on Mars.
What are we looking
at here, George?
>>HAAS: This is a large crater.
This is in Cydonia, the
famous face on Mars.
This is above the face
on Mars to the northeast.
This is in Cydonia.
This is a--
>>NOORY: What a great
looking crater, by the way.
>>HAAS: This is a large
circular crater that has,
what appears to be, a
profiled head of an eagle.
>>NOORY: Or a parrot?
>>HAAS: Possibly a parrot.
We're thinking it's an eagle.
Actually, we positioned
it to the side.
The eagle on the planet is
actually pointing north.
And looking into
Mesoamerica mythology which
we were studying with the
parrot formation that we found
and the face on Mars, all
this Mesoamerican references,
the eagle was very important.
He was related to the sun.
And, of course, you
have the axis mundi
with the Eagle pointing up.
Now, below this eagle is a
whole city of bird and deer
formations in the Cydonia area.
There's over a dozen in
this one condensed area.
This was the first
one that we found.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at the next image.
There's a parrot look again.
>>HAAS: There's
the parrot again.
Now, if you're looking at this
area directly below the crater,
that has the eagle in it.
Now, the eagle--
there's actually
three craters in that section.
And the other two
craters have nothing
on the bottom floor
of the crater.
They're completely vacant.
Which was an interesting
thing in looking at the Eagle
that that one just happened
to have this weird formation
in the crater.
Now, directly below that
is this formation here
which is on the surface.
This is placed-- if you
look on the left-- there's
a image of the parrot
that's not colorized.
There is a circular
mound on the bottom,
and then there's a large
mound at the top that
appears to have had its
main body ripped out.
Now, geologists have
looked at this--
William Saunders
and Michael Dale.
And geologically, this is
an anomaly to begin with.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HAAS: How do you have a
completely circular mound
that's supposedly had all of
this geological disturbances
with erosion and wind or
whatever, possibly water.
How would you have
another circular mound
have an area that gouged out?
Is this a mound that had
a foundation collapse?
Now, the interesting
thing about this formation
is that now that they've
taken out that section
of the top mound,
that surface is
in the shape of a parrot which
is colorized on the right side.
I provided a drawing of
the parrot on the left
just to give the audience an
idea of what we're looking at.
And the interesting thing about
this besides the two domes
and the one that
appears to be collapsed,
which Gregg Orme, who's a member
of the Society for Planetary
Study Research, he was
interested in this area.
He never saw the parrot being
an academic and a scientist.
He was interested
in the I formation.
Now, the eye has an ellipse.
>>NOORY: Well,
that's a good point.
>>HAAS: And he did a whole
paper, which he had not
published, about this eye.
And he was doing
measurements and showing
this ellipse inside the eye
and how this wasn't natural.
And lo and behold, he's
looking at the eye,
and I'm finding the whole body.
But still, people are
drawn to this area--
if you want to disregard
the parrot formation-- just
these surrounding other objects
in this image are anomalous.
>>NOORY: And the next image
looks sort of like a deer.
>>HAAS: Yes.
This is in the same area
that we have the parrot.
Like I said, there's over a
dozen deer and bird formations.
Now, this is a severed
head of a deer.
I have a drawing
on the right side.
You can see the eye, the muzzle.
>>NOORY: His ear.
>>HAAS: He's got one
triangular tooth.
In our research, we have images
of Mesoamerica sever-head deer
that had this large
triangular tooth.
Now, the interesting
thing about this,
we have a bird
sitting on his head.
That's a little dove.
Very elaborate.
It has a lot of jewel-like
imagery going through its tail,
and it's sitting
next to his ear.
Now, the thing we're finding
with these deer and bird
formations that we're finding in
Cydonia above the face on Mars,
is that birds and deer have
a very close relationship
in nature.
Birds will land on deer and
pick the ticks and parasites
off the deer to keep
the deer healthy.
So they have a
real relationship.
And once the deer die,
the birds eat the deer.
>>NOORY: And then they're able
to take care of each other.
>>HAAS: They take care.
So there's this very
close relationship.
And we find in
Mesoamerica culture--
going back to the parrot--
the principal bird deity,
one of the first gods
of the Maya-- the Macaw.
In the Maya Popol Vuh,
in the creation story,
the first animals that
the gods created--
once they created the
paradise of the Earth--
the first animals they created
to be caretakers for the earth
were birds and deer.
>>NOORY: Could this
be, though, George,
you know how you would
look at a cloud formation,
and you can see anything
you're looking for.
You can see the face of a dog.
You can see just about--
is that maybe what we
could be looking at where
the mind is creating this?
>>HAAS: Well, that
would be true.
We have numerous
pictures of this
all confirming
the shape of this.
But if you're looking at
clouds and chance formations,
usually they're silhouetted.
That would be stage
one of finding
a pictogram would be
a silhouette which
would be very low.
That would be dismissed.
The second phase would be
having eyes, nose, mouth ear,
neck, or whatever, if
you're looking at a head.
That would be the second step.
The third step would
be secondary features
such as iris in the eye,
nostrils, more detail.
Here we have teeth.
We have the eye.
We have a pupil.
We have a mouth with teeth.
We have a beard on the lower--
>>NOORY: Well, the eyes
are always strange to me.
They really stick out.
>>HAAS: Yeah, and we have
examples of Mesoamerica
examples of deer like this.
They're very similar.
And that little crater
knot at the neck,
that's part of the neck
muscle coming down.
I can't recall what
it's called right now.
But that just shows more of it.
And this whole idea of
severing the head of deer,
it's very common in Mesoamerica.
>>NOORY: We have our final
image here-- the map of Cydonia.
>>HAAS: Now, what this map
is showing, this is the area,
like I said--
>>NOORY: Looks like
the Hawaiian Islands.
>>HAAS: --these are
all of the mounds that
are above the face on Mars
towards the northeast.
At the top is where
the head of the eagle
is inside the crater and
that crater next to it.
There's actually a
third one above that
which isn't in this drawing.
And what I've done is
just done the drawings
of all of these mounds
that show the birds
and the deer that are in there.
So you can see this very
small, condensed area
on Mars has over a dozen
bird and deer geoglyphs.
>>NOORY: Where would the
face be based on this?
>>HAAS: At the lower left
where you see that goose--
>>NOORY: Way down at the bottom?
>>HAAS: --yeah, the
large goose at the bottom
which is facing west.
The face would be that way.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HAAS: And the idea of
having the goose separated
from the rest of
these, it goes back
to mythology, too, with
geese, with the Sumerians.
With the bird goddesses,
her companions were geese.
And we have the
biblical references
to the geese with the
saint coming down,
the Saint of the Birds, and
he had the geese next to him.
So the geese are all part
of this whole "following
the flock."
And in here, we have a
roadrunner, we have a parrot,
we have a hatchling,
we have a raptor eagle,
we have a mother bird
which is inverted
feeding a newborn bird, we
have an avian butterfly.
Now, the Maya considered
butterflies birds.
>>NOORY: Oh, they did?
>>HAAS: Butterflies and moths
were birds, and so were bats.
They were all part
of the bird family.
>>NOORY: Do you think
the Maya civilization
has anything to do with Mars?
>>HAAS: I think whoever started
the Mayan civilization has
to do with Mars.
I think the Mayan got their
cultural start from the Olmec
from a connection
with a Martian.
>>NOORY: What does
this all tell you
about what's happening
on Mars or what happened?
>>HAAS: What it's saying to me
is that Mars is like a living
Popol Vuh--
the creation story
of the Maya talking
about the relationship
with the gods of creation,
with the birds and the deer.
I think Mars is basically
a sacred book showing
the history of the human
race, and we're finding it
in all this pictographic stuff.
And the culture that
built this stuff embedded
all this information in
there hoping someday,
we would return to Mars and
find our point of origin.
>>NOORY: You had mentioned
the Nazca Lines in Peru.
And that, of course, is
where Erich von Daniken
developed his theory of
the chariots of the gods.
>>NARRATOR: We're about
to witness one of the most
mysterious wonders on Earth.
It's the largest work of art
in the world, so vast, in fact,
you can only see
it from the sky.
And it's even been suggested
it was made by aliens.
The Nazca Lines-- high up on
a plateau in Pampas de Jumana,
Peru--
images carved into the
very ground of the Pampas.
These pictures are
huge, but they're
not visible or even
apparent from the ground.
You have to take to the air in
a balloon, plane, or helicopter
to see these dramatic shapes.
They must be some
kind of message,
but it's a message
we can't understand.
This extraordinary
figure, thought
to be an astronaut by
some, who is he waving to?
What does all this mean?
The whole landscape
is crisscrossed
by puzzlingly straight lines.
They go everywhere for
mile upon mile upon mile.
It's like flying
over an airfield.
How were these huge designs
laid in the landscape
up to 2000 years ago by a people
whose history is now lost?
>>NOORY: I think Nazca, George,
is staggering, absolutely
staggering.
>>HAAS: It is.
As you can see at the Nazca
Lines, there's a lot of birds
there, also.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HAAS: And they're all in
this one condensed area.
They're in that small--
>>NOORY: And again,
you can only tell
what it is from above,
like what we saw on Mars.
>>HAAS: Exactly.
The correlation is not
a fluke, I don't think.
>>NOORY: Why would they
make these kinds of objects?
What would the purpose be?
Clearly you have to
see it from above,
so it would be either
for the gods or for those
who are coming by.
>>HAAS: I think, again, that
whoever built these probably
put these as a marker for
us coming from Earth once we
were a spacefaring culture.
Going to Mars, using this
as a communication tool
for us to see these structures
like the face on Mars,
we went over, and that's where
we were initially going to land
is in Cydonia, but they
ended up landing over
in the Utopia area.
Interesting that NASA picked
two areas that they found
the isotope problem with--
the Cydonia and Utopia which
Dr. Brandenburg talked about.
>>NOORY: And what do you
think about the correlation
between Peru, for
example, and Mars?
There's got to be
a tie-in somewhere.
>>HAAS: Well, it seems
to be a human tradition
to do pictographs and
geoglyphic formations to be
viewed from above.
It's a human
tradition, and we're
finding the same thing on Mars.
I think these things
that we're doing on Earth
were placed not to
be viewed by gods,
but whoever was capable of
interplanetary spacecraft
coming into the area that
we're using these as markers
that they could see from above.
A lot of people talk about
the crop circles being a--
>>NOORY: The same kind of thing.
>>HAAS: --same type
of thing-- a signal.
>>NOORY: What do you think
the next major revelation will
be about Mars?
>>HAAS: I think the
current administration,
with the release about
the lake on Mars,
which is actually data that
was five years ago if you look
into the detail of the
report, that they're
prepared to tell the public
there's not only water on Mars.
I think the next
shoe to drop is going
to be that they're finding
microbial life on Mars.
That's because if you
were paying attention
to the internet and the
news and science magazines,
there's a lot of talk now
about us contaminating Mars.
Getting the public
ready for a debate
that when they find microbial
life, you'll have one camp
will say, well, we
brought it there,
and the other camp will say,
oh, no, that's Martian life.
And because what
they want to do is
once they get feet
on the ground,
they want to find the
microbials in the rock.
I think they've already
found them on the surface,
but they want to find
them inside rocks which
wouldn't be contamination.
And I think that's going
to be the next big story.
>>NOORY: There was a Mars
movie where astronauts
went to the face.
And all of a sudden, they
found an extraterrestrial
who showed them a pictorial
look of what happened to Mars,
and it got hit by an asteroid
or something like that.
Do you remember that movie?
>>HAAS: Yes.
The story is very
believable, but I
think it was an indigenous
battle, not an asteroid.
I think there was
some kind of conflict.
>>NOORY: Nukes.
Nukes.
>>HAAS: Yeah,
following the evidence
and going with the data,
what Dr. Brandenburg's
found, that there was some
type of nuclear war on Mars.
And actually, the Maya--
I know I've talked
about the Maya a lot
with our iconography and the
motifs that we're finding--
a little known city
of Naranjo in Mexico
called Naranjo, one
of the older cities,
goes back to the
creation mythology.
And in their text, in stelae,
pottery they talk about a--
this is archaeologists
talking, not me--
it's called a star war.
>>NOORY: Ancient India writings
talk about a nuclear war.
>>HAAS: Exactly.
>>NOORY: But what if it
wasn't here, it was there.
>>HAAS: Exactly what I
was going to say, George.
What we're finding
in Mesoamerica,
ancient Indian
texts, I think even
revelations in the Bible
talking about all this conflict
and this destruction I
think is ancient stories
about what happened on Mars.
The destruction happened there--
this nuclear war that the
Indians talk about and also
the star war that the Maya
talk about which interestingly,
was with a city
called 6-Earth-Place.
Now, the Mayan archaeologists
can't find this place.
It was a star war
between Naranjo, Tikal,
and 6-Earth-Place.
Now the patron god of
Naranjo was the serpent
which was the Zip monster.
Now, the Zip monster's
a symbol of Mars.
And Mars, like the
Sumerians, the ancient Maya
numbered the planets.
Earth was seven, and the
Sumerians earth was seven.
Venus was the number eight.
Mars was the number six.
So they numbered the planets
from the outside in just
like the Sumerians.
Now, 6-Earth-Place is
an earth-like planet--
Mars.
So 6-Earth-Place is Mars.
Their patron god was the
Zip monster which is Mars.
So there's this
overlaying symbolism.
So this is where this battle
was that the Maya record.
And the interesting
thing about it
is that the
archaeologists haven't
realized that 6-Earth-Place
is actually Mars.
That's what they're
talking about.
>>NOORY: Well, keep
up the good work.
And one day, maybe
we'll get these answers.
>>HAAS: I think once we get
the answers, George, you
and I will be talking about it.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
Nothing has been more
exciting for me in my career
than watching these things
unfold on planet Mars.
And we're finding
more and more things.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]